
1. Fed Proc. 1984 Feb;43(2):220-5.

Anaerobic energy metabolism of invertebrates.

Hammen CS, Ellington WR.


PMID: 6692942  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1. Cancer Res. 1984 Mar;44(3):1072-6.

Inhibitory effect of antioxidants ethoxyquin and 2(3)-tert-butyl-4-hydroxyanisole
on hepatic tumorigenesis in rats fed ciprofibrate, a peroxisome proliferator.

Rao MS, Lalwani ND, Watanabe TK, Reddy JK.

The objective of this study was to test the hypothesis that hepatocarcinogenesis 
by peroxisome proliferators, a novel class of chemical carcinogens, is mediated
either directly by carcinogenic H2O2, generated by peroxisomal oxidase(s) or
indirectly by free radicals produced from H2O2, and that antioxidants could
retard or inhibit neoplasia by scavenging active oxygen (super-oxide radicals
O(2), hydrogen peroxide, hydroxyl radicals HO, and singlet oxygen 1O2).
Accordingly, the effect of synthetic antioxidants
2(3)-tert-butyl-14-hydroxyanisole and ethoxyquin on the peroxisome proliferator
2-[4-(2,2-dichlorocyclopropyl)phenoxy]2-methyl-propionic acid
(ciprofibrate)-induced hepatic tumorigenesis has been examined in male Fischer
344 rats. Rats were fed either a 2(3)-tert-butyl-4-hydroxyanisole (0.5% w/w)- or 
ethoxyquin (0.5% w/w)-containing diet with or without ciprofibrate (10 mg/kg of
body weight) for 60 weeks. Rats fed ciprofibrate (10 mg/kg of body weight) in the
diet or fed a diet with no added chemicals served as controls. Results of this
study demonstrated that ethoxyquin markedly inhibited the hepatic tumorigenic
effect of ciprofibrate, as evidenced by a decreased incidence of tumors, a
decreased number of tumors per liver, and a reduced tumor size.
2(3)-tert-Butyl-4-hydroxyanisole also caused a significant decrease in the
incidence and number of hepatocellular carcinomas that were larger than 5 mm. The
present data suggest that the inhibitory effect of antioxidants on
ciprofibrate-induced hepatic tumorigenesis may be due to H2O2 and free
radical-scavenging property of ethoxyquin and 2(3)-tert-butyl-4-hydroxyanisole,
since these antioxidants do not prevent peroxisome proliferation and induction of
H2O2-generating peroxisomal enzymes in livers of rats fed ciprofibrate. Whether
the inhibitory effect of antioxidants is exercised on the presumptive H2O2
initiation process and/or on the postinitiation growth phase of foci and nodules 
in liver is, at present, unknown.


PMID: 6692393  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1. Am J Surg. 1984 Jan;147(1):43-8.

Treatment of epidermoid anal canal cancer.

Salmon RJ, Fenton J, Asselain B, Mathieu G, Girodet J, Durand JC, Decroix Y,
Pilleron JP, Rousseau J.

Between 1968 and 1979, 183 patients with invasive epidermoid cancer of the anal
canal were treated at Institut Curie. There was 156 women, 27 men with a mean age
of 67 +/- 11 years (range 40 to 85 years). The initial height of the tumor was
less than 4 cm (65 patients), 4 to 6 cm (98 patients), and more than 6 cm (20
patients). All the patients received radiotherapy, either preoperatively or as
curative procedure. Twenty-five patients received preoperative radiotherapy, and 
there was no residual tumor in 9 biopsies obtained at operation. Four local
recurrences were observed. One hundred fifty-eight patients received curative
radiotherapy, 115 of whom did not undergo operation. Eighty were alive with no
evidence of disease and good anal function with a minimum of 3 years follow-up.
We observed 15 local recurrences, 4 inguinal recurrences, and 8 visceral
metastases. In addition, eight patients initially had such a big tumor that
radiotherapy was only a palliative procedure. Forty-three patients required a
surgical procedure after this curative radiotherapy. Colostomy (12 patients) or
abdominoperineal amputation (25 patients) was required for local recurrence and
colostomy was required for necrosis related to radiotherapy. Five year survival
was 59 percent. The survival was related to the size of the tumor (p less than
0.0001). The likelihood of retaining normal anal function with local control of
the tumor was also closely related to the initial size of the tumor.

DOI: 10.1016/0002-9610(84)90032-1 
PMID: 6691550  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1. N Engl J Med. 1984 Feb 2;310(5):273-8.

Clinical use of the total artificial heart.

DeVries WC, Anderson JL, Joyce LD, Anderson FL, Hammond EH, Jarvik RK, Kolff WJ.

Comment in
    N Engl J Med. 2004 Feb 5;350(6):542-4.

We report here our first experience with the use of a total artificial heart in a
human being. The heart was developed at the University of Utah, and the patient
was a 61-year-old man with chronic congestive heart failure due to primary
cardiomyopathy, who also had chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. Except for
dysfunction of the prosthetic mitral valve, which required replacement of the
left-heart prosthesis on the 13th postoperative day, the artificial heart
functioned well for the entire postoperative course of 112 days. The mean blood
pressure was 84 +/- 8 mm Hg, and cardiac output was generally maintained at 6.7
+/- 0.8 liters per minute for the right heart and 7.5 +/- 0.8 for the left,
resulting in postoperative diuresis and relief of congestive failure. The
postoperative course was complicated by recurrent pulmonary insufficiency,
several episodes of acute renal failure, episodes of fever of unidentified cause 
(necessitating multiple courses of antibiotics), hemorrhagic complications of
anticoagulation, and one generalized seizure of uncertain cause. On the 92nd
postoperative day, the patient had diarrhea and vomiting, leading to aspiration
pneumonia and sepsis. Death occurred on the 112th day, preceded by progressive
renal failure and refractory hypotension, despite maintenance of cardiac output. 
Autopsy revealed extensive pseudomembranous colitis, acute tubular necrosis,
peritoneal and pleural effusion, centrilobular emphysema, and chronic bronchitis 
with fibrosis and bronchiectasis. The artificial heart system was intact and
uninvolved by thrombosis or infectious processes. This experience should
encourage further clinical trials with the artificial heart, but we emphasize
that the procedure is still highly experimental. Further experience, development,
and discussion will be required before more general application of the device can
be recommended.

DOI: 10.1056/NEJM198402023100501 
PMID: 6690950  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1. J Virol. 1984 Jan;49(1):283-6.

Effect of novobiocin on mycoplasma virus L2 replication.

Poddar SK, Maniloff J.

L2 is a temperate mycoplasma virus containing 11.8 kilobase pairs of negatively
superhelical double-stranded DNA. We observed L2 DNA with less superhelicity in
novobiocin-treated cells than that in untreated cells. However, although no
change in viral DNA superhelicity could be found in novobiocin-treated
novobiocin-resistant cells, L2 production decreased in these novobiocin-treated
cells.


PMCID: PMC255456
PMID: 6690717  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1. Cancer Chemother Pharmacol. 1984;12(1):39-42.

Phase-I trial of UltrapureTM human leukocyte interferon in human malignancy.

Budd GT, Bukowski RM, Miketo L, Yen-Lieberman B, Proffitt MR.

A phase-I trial of UltrapureTM human leukocyte (alpha) interferon was performed, 
in which 15 patients were treated according to a dose-ranging protocol. Five
patients were treated at each of these dosage levels: 2 X 10(6) IU/dose, 9 X
10(6) IU/dose, and 15 X 10(6) IU/dose. Doses were given on days 1-5 and 8-12 of a
28-day study period. Serial NK-cell assays were performed in all patients, and
failed to show consistent effects referable to treatment. Serum interferon levels
were assayed on one patient at the 9 X 10(6) IU and one patient at the 15 X 10(6)
IU dose level. In both cases, a significant interferon titer (greater than or
equal to 160) was detected in the serum, and this persisted for as long as 12 h. 
Fever, malaise, and myalgias were associated with therapy. The dose-limiting
toxicity was a dose-related leukopenia, with median white blood cell nadirs of
6,500/mm3 (3 X 10(6) IU/dose), 3,200/mm3 (9 X 10(6) IU/dose), and 1,800/mm3 (15 X
10(6) IU/dose) being produced. One patient died in ventricular fibrillation while
suffering chest pain after receiving 5 days of treatment at the 15 X 10(6)
IU/dose level. Three patients showed minor responses, insufficient to be called
partial responses, in association with interferon therapy. We conclude that
dose-limiting leukopenia occurs with this schedule of administration of
UltrapureTM human leukocyte interferon at 15 X 10(6) IU/dose.


PMID: 6690072  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1. Arch Neurol. 1984 Jan;41(1):16.

Pontine ataxic hemiparesis.

Van Buggenhout E, Dehaene I, Van Zandijcke M.

DOI: 10.1001/archneur.1984.04050130018011 
PMID: 6689883  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1. Nihon Hinyokika Gakkai Zasshi. 1983 Aug;74(8):1297-312.

[Studies of the xenotransplantation of human urogenital carcinomas into nude
mice. (2). Establishment of transplantable tumors and evaluation of anticancer
drugs].

[Article in Japanese]

Tsukamoto T, Kumamoto Y.


PMID: 6687128  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1. Nihon Ketsueki Gakkai Zasshi. 1983 Dec;46(7):1551-7.

Role of the platelet in maintaining the integrity of the vascular endothelial
cell.

Kakishita E.


PMID: 6687101  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1. Urologe A. 1983 Sep;22 Suppl:393.

[New results of the treatment of metastasized testicular tumors in early and late
stages].

[Article in German]

Seeber S, Schütte J, Niederle N, Schmidt CG.


PMID: 6685390  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1. Dtsch Tierarztl Wochenschr. 1981 Jun 5;88(6):211-4.

[Initial peak as a result of an adaptation (author's transl)].

[Article in German]

Kaemmerer K.


PMID: 7026205  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1. Cancer Res. 1982 Feb;42(2):660-6.

Quantitative determination of disseminated tumor cells by [3H]thymidine
incorporation in vitro and by agar colony formation.

Schirrmacher V, Waller CA.

A new microradioassay for the detection and quantification of disseminated tumor 
cells in blood and organ samples of tumor-bearing animals has been worked out in 
a murine total system for tumor metastasis. In contrast to previous prelabeling
or in situ labeling procedures, the basis of this assay is a postlabeling in
vitro of tumor cell-containing material with [3H]thymidine. Percoll gradient
fractionation and autoradiography revealed that most of the isotope was
incorporated into tumor cells. Titration curves with tumor cells from tissue
culture were run in parallel and allowed to calculate from the radioactivity of a
sample that actual number of proliferating tumor cells. The postlabeling assay
correlated fairly well with an agar colony test which measure the clonogenic or
stem cell potential of a tumor cell population. About 70% of syngeneic animals
which had been inoculated s.c. with ESb tumor cells showed increased
[3H]thymidine uptake in their blood, particularly at certain time intervals (11
and 21 days). None of these animals lived for more than 2 days longer. The
advantages of the new microradioassay and its possible prognostic significance
will be discussed.


PMID: 7034926  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1. J Sci Food Agric. 1981 Sep;32(9):857-62.

Detection and partial characterisation of subtilisin inhibitors in legume seeds
by isoelectric focusing.

Chavan JK, Hejgaard J.

DOI: 10.1002/jsfa.2740320903 
PMID: 7026897  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1. Ann Plast Surg. 1981 Mar;6(3):215-23.

Evaluation of clinical microvascular anastomoses--reasons for failure.

Lidman D, Daniel RK.

Thrombosis in clinical microvascular anastomoses is attributed to suture errors
and utilization of severely damaged recipient arteries. Histopathological
specimens from 24 microvascular anastomoses and 77 vessel biopsies from free
tissue transfers and replantation cases were analyzed. Suture errors of any note 
were rare and occurred primarily in replantation cases in which team experience
varied and fatigue was common. Recipient artery damage ranged from minimal to
severe; clinical analysis confirmed the devastating effect of refractory spasm
associated with intramural scarring from previous trauma. Additional studies by
microvascular groups are needed to clarify the causes of thrombosis and the
healing mechanism of microvascular anastomosis.

DOI: 10.1097/00000637-198103000-00008 
PMID: 7015978  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1. Bull World Health Organ. 1982;60(4):605-13.

The magnitude of the global problem of acute diarrhoeal disease: a review of
active surveillance data.

Snyder JD, Merson MH.

PIP: Data from 24 published studies were anlayzed in order to estimate the annual
morbidity and mortality from acute diarrheal diseases in the developing world. 22
of the studies involved frequent surveillance through home visits to families in 
communities; the other 2 were multicountry studies in which diarrhea mortality
was calculated on the basis of death certificate information. Morbidity rates
were found to be highest in the 6-11 month age group, while the mortality rates
were greatest in infants under 1 year of age and children 1 year old. For
children under 5 years of age, the median incidence of diarhhea was 2.2
episodes/child/year for all studies and 3.0 episodes/child/year for the studies
that had the smallest populations and most frequent surveillance. Using 1980
population estimates, the estimated total yearly morbidity and mortality from
diarrheal diseases for children under 5 years of age in Africa, Asia (excluding
China), and Latin America were 744-1000 million episodes and 4.6 million deaths. 
(author's)

PMCID: PMC2536091
PMID: 6982783  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1. Cancer Res. 1982 Feb;42(2):660-6.

Quantitative determination of disseminated tumor cells by [3H]thymidine
incorporation in vitro and by agar colony formation.

Schirrmacher V, Waller CA.

A new microradioassay for the detection and quantification of disseminated tumor 
cells in blood and organ samples of tumor-bearing animals has been worked out in 
a murine total system for tumor metastasis. In contrast to previous prelabeling
or in situ labeling procedures, the basis of this assay is a postlabeling in
vitro of tumor cell-containing material with [3H]thymidine. Percoll gradient
fractionation and autoradiography revealed that most of the isotope was
incorporated into tumor cells. Titration curves with tumor cells from tissue
culture were run in parallel and allowed to calculate from the radioactivity of a
sample that actual number of proliferating tumor cells. The postlabeling assay
correlated fairly well with an agar colony test which measure the clonogenic or
stem cell potential of a tumor cell population. About 70% of syngeneic animals
which had been inoculated s.c. with ESb tumor cells showed increased
[3H]thymidine uptake in their blood, particularly at certain time intervals (11
and 21 days). None of these animals lived for more than 2 days longer. The
advantages of the new microradioassay and its possible prognostic significance
will be discussed.


PMID: 7034926  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1. J Sci Food Agric. 1981 Sep;32(9):857-62.

Detection and partial characterisation of subtilisin inhibitors in legume seeds
by isoelectric focusing.

Chavan JK, Hejgaard J.

DOI: 10.1002/jsfa.2740320903 
PMID: 7026897  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1. Ann Plast Surg. 1981 Mar;6(3):215-23.

Evaluation of clinical microvascular anastomoses--reasons for failure.

Lidman D, Daniel RK.

Thrombosis in clinical microvascular anastomoses is attributed to suture errors
and utilization of severely damaged recipient arteries. Histopathological
specimens from 24 microvascular anastomoses and 77 vessel biopsies from free
tissue transfers and replantation cases were analyzed. Suture errors of any note 
were rare and occurred primarily in replantation cases in which team experience
varied and fatigue was common. Recipient artery damage ranged from minimal to
severe; clinical analysis confirmed the devastating effect of refractory spasm
associated with intramural scarring from previous trauma. Additional studies by
microvascular groups are needed to clarify the causes of thrombosis and the
healing mechanism of microvascular anastomosis.

DOI: 10.1097/00000637-198103000-00008 
PMID: 7015978  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1. Bull World Health Organ. 1982;60(4):605-13.

The magnitude of the global problem of acute diarrhoeal disease: a review of
active surveillance data.

Snyder JD, Merson MH.

PIP: Data from 24 published studies were anlayzed in order to estimate the annual
morbidity and mortality from acute diarrheal diseases in the developing world. 22
of the studies involved frequent surveillance through home visits to families in 
communities; the other 2 were multicountry studies in which diarrhea mortality
was calculated on the basis of death certificate information. Morbidity rates
were found to be highest in the 6-11 month age group, while the mortality rates
were greatest in infants under 1 year of age and children 1 year old. For
children under 5 years of age, the median incidence of diarhhea was 2.2
episodes/child/year for all studies and 3.0 episodes/child/year for the studies
that had the smallest populations and most frequent surveillance. Using 1980
population estimates, the estimated total yearly morbidity and mortality from
diarrheal diseases for children under 5 years of age in Africa, Asia (excluding
China), and Latin America were 744-1000 million episodes and 4.6 million deaths. 
(author's)

PMCID: PMC2536091
PMID: 6982783  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1. Science. 1982 Feb 5;215(4533):687-9.

Cytoplasmic inclusion bodies in Escherichia coli producing biosynthetic human
insulin proteins.

Williams DC, Van Frank RM, Muth WL, Burnett JP.

Escherichia coli that has been genetically manipulated by recombinant DNA
technology to synthesize human insulin polypeptides (A chain, B chain, or
proinsulin) contains prominent cytoplasmic inclusion bodies. The amount of
inclusion product within the cells corresponds to the quantity of chimeric
protein formed by the bacteria. At peak production, the inclusion bodies may
occupy as much as 20 percent of the Escherichia coli cellular volume.

DOI: 10.1126/science.7036343 
PMID: 7036343  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1. Science. 1982 Feb 5;215(4533):685-7.

Uninvolved skin from psoriatic patients develops signs of involved psoriatic skin
after being grafted onto nude mice.

Fraki JE, Briggaman RA, Lazarus GS.

Clinically involved psoriatic epidermis maintains its histological appearance,
increased labeling index, and increased level of plasminogen activator after
being grafted onto athymic nude mice. Uninvolved psoriatic epidermis develops
increases in plasminogen activator activity after being grafted onto athymic nude
mice; this is accompanied by an increased labeling index. Thus, psoriatic skin
can develop markers of psoriasis independent of the host.

DOI: 10.1126/science.7036342 
PMID: 7036342  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1. J Health Polit Policy Law. 1981 Fall;6(3):444-62.

Nurse practitioner reimbursement.

Wriston S.

The Rural Health Clinics Act demonstrates the current trend in reimbursement of
nurse practitioners: Congress intends to move slowly and continuously with
mid-level practitioner reimbursement, limiting NP practice first to rural
underserved areas, and reimbursing at a cost-related rate to avoid unnecessarily 
inflating costs. The Act's recognition of the NP as a reimbursable provider of
traditional medical services, needing only indirect supervision, is important,
especially with regard to the mandatory Medicaid coverage of "rural health clinic
services." All states which do not explicitly prohibit NPs have been affected by 
this mandate, precipitating state legislative efforts to more clearly define NP
scope of practice. There is still a need to clarify the ambiguity surrounding NP 
Medicaid reimbursement policies; Medicaid plans are frequently not well
coordinated with nurse practice statutes. Altering third-party payor practices to
permit reimbursement for services of nurse practitioners would alleviate some of 
the current restrictions on NP practice. However, medical society opposition also
plays a significant role in such restriction. Antitrust courts, free of the
tremendous lobbying power of medical interest groups, may be able to provide
remedies which will facilitate greater competition and innovation in the health
care industry. Legal test cases are necessary to begin contesting obstacles to
the implementation of the Rural Health Clinic Services Act. The aggregate surplus
of physicians projected for 1990 will continue to be an issue in the development 
of new financial programs concerning NP services. Demonstration projects which
utilize various reimbursement strategies should evaluate the effect on health
manpower of reimbursement for medical services provided by nurse practitioners.

DOI: 10.1215/03616878-6-3-444 
PMID: 7033348  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1. Orv Hetil. 1981 Aug 30;122(35):2141-4.

[Immunologic studies in systemic lupus erythematosus. Prognostic value of the
studies].

[Article in Hungarian]

Gergely P.


PMID: 7029402  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1. Can Med Assoc J. 1981 Jun 15;124(12):1559-65, 1570.

Essential tremor.

Murray TJ.

Essential tremor, including the juvenile and senile variations, may be a result
of a disorder of the servomechanism that controls physiologic tremor. Hands and
arms are affected most commonly, and the tremor can vary in amplitude as well as 
frequency. Long-term treatment with propranolol has been helpful for some
patients, although older patients are less likely to benefit. Other drugs and
behaviour modification therapy have been less successful. Surgical treatment is
effective but should probably be reserved for severe cases. An effective
instrument for measuring the subjective and objective aspects of the tremor is
still needed, as is an effective long-term method of treatment.


PMCID: PMC1862527
PMID: 7018658  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1. Dtsch Tierarztl Wochenschr. 1981 Jun 5;88(6):211-4.

[Initial peak as a result of an adaptation (author's transl)].

[Article in German]

Kaemmerer K.


PMID: 7026205  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1. Cancer Res. 1982 Feb;42(2):660-6.

Quantitative determination of disseminated tumor cells by [3H]thymidine
incorporation in vitro and by agar colony formation.

Schirrmacher V, Waller CA.

A new microradioassay for the detection and quantification of disseminated tumor 
cells in blood and organ samples of tumor-bearing animals has been worked out in 
a murine total system for tumor metastasis. In contrast to previous prelabeling
or in situ labeling procedures, the basis of this assay is a postlabeling in
vitro of tumor cell-containing material with [3H]thymidine. Percoll gradient
fractionation and autoradiography revealed that most of the isotope was
incorporated into tumor cells. Titration curves with tumor cells from tissue
culture were run in parallel and allowed to calculate from the radioactivity of a
sample that actual number of proliferating tumor cells. The postlabeling assay
correlated fairly well with an agar colony test which measure the clonogenic or
stem cell potential of a tumor cell population. About 70% of syngeneic animals
which had been inoculated s.c. with ESb tumor cells showed increased
[3H]thymidine uptake in their blood, particularly at certain time intervals (11
and 21 days). None of these animals lived for more than 2 days longer. The
advantages of the new microradioassay and its possible prognostic significance
will be discussed.


PMID: 7034926  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1. J Sci Food Agric. 1981 Sep;32(9):857-62.

Detection and partial characterisation of subtilisin inhibitors in legume seeds
by isoelectric focusing.

Chavan JK, Hejgaard J.

DOI: 10.1002/jsfa.2740320903 
PMID: 7026897  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1. Ann Plast Surg. 1981 Mar;6(3):215-23.

Evaluation of clinical microvascular anastomoses--reasons for failure.

Lidman D, Daniel RK.

Thrombosis in clinical microvascular anastomoses is attributed to suture errors
and utilization of severely damaged recipient arteries. Histopathological
specimens from 24 microvascular anastomoses and 77 vessel biopsies from free
tissue transfers and replantation cases were analyzed. Suture errors of any note 
were rare and occurred primarily in replantation cases in which team experience
varied and fatigue was common. Recipient artery damage ranged from minimal to
severe; clinical analysis confirmed the devastating effect of refractory spasm
associated with intramural scarring from previous trauma. Additional studies by
microvascular groups are needed to clarify the causes of thrombosis and the
healing mechanism of microvascular anastomosis.

DOI: 10.1097/00000637-198103000-00008 
PMID: 7015978  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1. Bull World Health Organ. 1982;60(4):605-13.

The magnitude of the global problem of acute diarrhoeal disease: a review of
active surveillance data.

Snyder JD, Merson MH.

PIP: Data from 24 published studies were anlayzed in order to estimate the annual
morbidity and mortality from acute diarrheal diseases in the developing world. 22
of the studies involved frequent surveillance through home visits to families in 
communities; the other 2 were multicountry studies in which diarrhea mortality
was calculated on the basis of death certificate information. Morbidity rates
were found to be highest in the 6-11 month age group, while the mortality rates
were greatest in infants under 1 year of age and children 1 year old. For
children under 5 years of age, the median incidence of diarhhea was 2.2
episodes/child/year for all studies and 3.0 episodes/child/year for the studies
that had the smallest populations and most frequent surveillance. Using 1980
population estimates, the estimated total yearly morbidity and mortality from
diarrheal diseases for children under 5 years of age in Africa, Asia (excluding
China), and Latin America were 744-1000 million episodes and 4.6 million deaths. 
(author's)

PMCID: PMC2536091
PMID: 6982783  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1. Science. 1982 Feb 5;215(4533):687-9.

Cytoplasmic inclusion bodies in Escherichia coli producing biosynthetic human
insulin proteins.

Williams DC, Van Frank RM, Muth WL, Burnett JP.

Escherichia coli that has been genetically manipulated by recombinant DNA
technology to synthesize human insulin polypeptides (A chain, B chain, or
proinsulin) contains prominent cytoplasmic inclusion bodies. The amount of
inclusion product within the cells corresponds to the quantity of chimeric
protein formed by the bacteria. At peak production, the inclusion bodies may
occupy as much as 20 percent of the Escherichia coli cellular volume.

DOI: 10.1126/science.7036343 
PMID: 7036343  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1. Science. 1982 Feb 5;215(4533):685-7.

Uninvolved skin from psoriatic patients develops signs of involved psoriatic skin
after being grafted onto nude mice.

Fraki JE, Briggaman RA, Lazarus GS.

Clinically involved psoriatic epidermis maintains its histological appearance,
increased labeling index, and increased level of plasminogen activator after
being grafted onto athymic nude mice. Uninvolved psoriatic epidermis develops
increases in plasminogen activator activity after being grafted onto athymic nude
mice; this is accompanied by an increased labeling index. Thus, psoriatic skin
can develop markers of psoriasis independent of the host.

DOI: 10.1126/science.7036342 
PMID: 7036342  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1. J Health Polit Policy Law. 1981 Fall;6(3):444-62.

Nurse practitioner reimbursement.

Wriston S.

The Rural Health Clinics Act demonstrates the current trend in reimbursement of
nurse practitioners: Congress intends to move slowly and continuously with
mid-level practitioner reimbursement, limiting NP practice first to rural
underserved areas, and reimbursing at a cost-related rate to avoid unnecessarily 
inflating costs. The Act's recognition of the NP as a reimbursable provider of
traditional medical services, needing only indirect supervision, is important,
especially with regard to the mandatory Medicaid coverage of "rural health clinic
services." All states which do not explicitly prohibit NPs have been affected by 
this mandate, precipitating state legislative efforts to more clearly define NP
scope of practice. There is still a need to clarify the ambiguity surrounding NP 
Medicaid reimbursement policies; Medicaid plans are frequently not well
coordinated with nurse practice statutes. Altering third-party payor practices to
permit reimbursement for services of nurse practitioners would alleviate some of 
the current restrictions on NP practice. However, medical society opposition also
plays a significant role in such restriction. Antitrust courts, free of the
tremendous lobbying power of medical interest groups, may be able to provide
remedies which will facilitate greater competition and innovation in the health
care industry. Legal test cases are necessary to begin contesting obstacles to
the implementation of the Rural Health Clinic Services Act. The aggregate surplus
of physicians projected for 1990 will continue to be an issue in the development 
of new financial programs concerning NP services. Demonstration projects which
utilize various reimbursement strategies should evaluate the effect on health
manpower of reimbursement for medical services provided by nurse practitioners.

DOI: 10.1215/03616878-6-3-444 
PMID: 7033348  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1. Orv Hetil. 1981 Aug 30;122(35):2141-4.

[Immunologic studies in systemic lupus erythematosus. Prognostic value of the
studies].

[Article in Hungarian]

Gergely P.


PMID: 7029402  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1. Can Med Assoc J. 1981 Jun 15;124(12):1559-65, 1570.

Essential tremor.

Murray TJ.

Essential tremor, including the juvenile and senile variations, may be a result
of a disorder of the servomechanism that controls physiologic tremor. Hands and
arms are affected most commonly, and the tremor can vary in amplitude as well as 
frequency. Long-term treatment with propranolol has been helpful for some
patients, although older patients are less likely to benefit. Other drugs and
behaviour modification therapy have been less successful. Surgical treatment is
effective but should probably be reserved for severe cases. An effective
instrument for measuring the subjective and objective aspects of the tremor is
still needed, as is an effective long-term method of treatment.


PMCID: PMC1862527
PMID: 7018658  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

